1. Eur J Pharmacol. 2020 Dec 15;889:173644. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2020.173644. Epub 
2020 Oct 11.

Treatment for COVID-19: An overview.

Stasi C(1), Fallani S(2), Voller F(2), Silvestri C(2).

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology Unit, Tuscany Regional Health Agency, Florence, Italy; 
Department of Experimental and Clinical Medicine, Careggi University Hospital, 
Florence, Italy. Electronic address: cristina.stasi@gmail.com.
(2)Epidemiology Unit, Tuscany Regional Health Agency, Florence, Italy.

Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is an infectious disease caused by 
coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) that causes a severe acute respiratory syndrome, a 
characteristic hyperinflammatory response, vascular damage, microangiopathy, 
angiogenesis and widespread thrombosis. Four stages of COVID-19 have been 
identified: the first stage is characterised by upper respiratory tract 
infection; the second by the onset of dyspnoea and pneumonia; the third by a 
worsening clinical scenario dominated by a cytokine storm and the consequent 
hyperinflammatory state; and the fourth by death or recovery. Currently, no 
treatment can act specifically against the SARS-CoV-2 infection. Based on the 
pathological features and different clinical phases of COVID-19, particularly in 
patients with moderate to severe COVID-19, the classes of drugs used are 
antiviral agents, inflammation inhibitors/antirheumatic drugs, low molecular 
weight heparins, plasma, and hyperimmune immunoglobulins. During this emergency 
period of the COVID-19 outbreak, clinical researchers are using and testing a 
variety of possible treatments. Based on these premises, this review aims to 
discuss the most updated pharmacological treatments to effectively act against 
the SARS-CoV-2 infection and support researchers and clinicians in relation to 
any current and future developments in curing COVID-19 patients.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2020.173644
PMCID: PMC7548059
PMID: 33053381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
disclose.